.. include:: links.rst

.. _ideation:


Ideation and Brainstorming
==========================

We all occasionally become stuck while trying to choose an idea.


The primary difference between undergraduates and graduate students is that undergraduates have not yet learned how to follow through on an idea.

Never rest, always relentlessly ask yourself the followup questions.


Regressing the Question
-----------------------


(need to write this)


General Brainstorming Heuristics
--------------------------------

Following are a few more general strategies. If ever you feel stuck generating
ideas, try some of these steps.

#. Let go of your fear, let go of any preconceptions of brilliance.  Ideas are
   cheap.  Dirt cheap.  The work and interest comes from thinking it through,
   identifying the questions, fitting into constraints, solving the underlying
   problems, identifying the difficult parts, finding the novel bits, framing
   the story.  Ideas mostly arise from other ideas. Don't wait for inspiration,
   apply some systematic generation and better ideas will almost always evolve.
   If you're stuck for one idea, generate ten.

#. Look around the room, choose two things, jam them together.  E.g., "door,
   concrete blocks, what about doors made of concrete?  What about a design
   system for hinged concrete structures?"  I'm sure you can do better.  Or pick
   two systems and try to apply arbitrary elements of one to another.  These
   ideas are rarely useful but will open the doors to others.

#. For a nascent idea, regress the question: what is the more abstract version
   of this idea?  If I had this thing, what would I really have?  Almost
   everything can be traced back to something fundamental like survival or love,
   then back out to something slightly different and better.  This process
   almost always identifies elements of your idea which can be dropped as
   inessential or distracting.

#. Look for the hard parts: these might be opportunities, or maybe just hints to
   simplify.  Follow the path of least resistance: choose your battles carefully
   and make sure anything hard is actually essential and not a distraction.

#. Look for the rules and metrics: how are you going to evaluate whether the
   idea fits the need?  Often defining the rubric is harder than generating the
   idea itself.

#. How would you explain your idea to an alien?  How would your explain your
   idea to Spock (RIP) or a perfectly rational being?  The point is to tease out
   your unspoken assumptions and see if they can be adjusted.

#. For the designers lost in the absence of a client: assume *you* are the
   client.  What needs do you have?  What would you like to see existing in the
   world?  Or choose your ideal fantasy client: what need would they have?  If
   you need a dirty canvas, look around you and pick any starting point: design
   for wherever you are.






   
Project Idea Prompts
--------------------

This is intended to be a pool of interesting project prompts motivating a
set of simple demonstrations of technique.

(this needs a lot of work)

.. FIXME

Technical: potentiometers (position sensor) 1d transducer, light is a proxy for
all kinds of processes, microphones (audio energy level, pitch, pulse arrival ->
basically time-based processes), breath sensor (temperature as a proxy for
breath), temperature, each process has a characteristic data

Prompts: 

- Design a robot that points to the brightest nearby light source. 

- Design a system to measure excitement, e.g., sensing breath or heartbeat over time. 

- Point to warmest person. 

- Design a system to record the flight path of a paper airplane in 3d space, e.g., using accelerometer, proximity sensor, ultrasonic sensor. 

- Encode and print arbitrary waveform on transparent film, design “record player” using phototransistor. Optical analog record player. 

- Build memory. Encode your name in the physical world, build a device that reads it back. Mercury delay line with bubbles in water. 

